The encodeURI() and encodeURIComponent() methods are used to encode URIs (Uniform Resource Identifiers) to be passed to the browser.

To be valid, a URI cannot contain certain characters, such as spaces.

The URI-encoding methods encode the URIs so that a browser can still accept and understand them.

It replaces all invalid characters with a special UTF-8 encoding.

The encodeURI() method works on an entire URI.

The encodeURI() does not encode special characters that are part of a URI, such as the colon, forward slash, question mark, and pound sign.

The encodeURIComponent() methods work on a segment of a URI.

encodeURIComponent() encodes every non-standard character it finds.

Consider this example:

Copy
let uri = "https://www.demo2s.com/index page.html#start";

console.log(encodeURI(uri));
console.log(encodeURIComponent(uri));
Output:


Here, using encodeURI() left the value completely intact except for the space, which was replaced with %20.

The encodeURIComponent() method replaced all non-alphanumeric characters with their encoded equivalents.

This is why encodeURI() can be used on full URIs, whereas encodeURIComponent() can be used only on strings that are appended to the end of an existing URI.

You'll use encodeURIComponent() much more frequently than encodeURI() because it's more common to encode query string arguments separately from the base URI.

Decode URL
The two counterparts to encodeURI() and encodeURIComponent() are decodeURI() and decodeURIComponent().

The decodeURI() method decodes only characters that would have been replaced by using encodeURI().

For instance, %20 is replaced with a space, but %23 is not replaced because it represents a pound sign (#), which encodeURI() does not replace.

decodeURIComponent() decodes all characters encoded by encodeURIComponent(), essentially meaning it decodes all special values.

Consider this example:

Copy
let uri = "https%3A%2F%2Fwww.demo2s.com%2Findex%20page.html%23start";
console.log(decodeURI(uri));
console.log(decodeURIComponent(uri));
Output:


Here, the uri variable contains a string that is encoded using encodeURIComponent().

The first value output is the result of decodeURI(), which replaced only the %20 with a space.

The second value is the output of decodeURIComponent(), which replaces all the special characters and outputs a string that has no escaping in it.

The URI methods encodeURI(), encodeURIComponent(), decodeURI(), and decodeURIComponent() replace the escape() and unescape() methods, which are deprecated in the ECMA-262 third edition.

Avoid using escape() and unescape() in production code.
