Array slice() creates an array that contains one or more items already contained in an array.

The slice() method may accept one or two arguments: the starting and stopping positions of the items to return.

If only one argument is present, the method returns all items between that position and the end of the array.

If there are two arguments, the method returns all items between the start position and the end position, not including the item in the end position.

This operation does not affect the original array in any way.

Consider the following:

Copy
let colors = ["A", "B", "C", "D", "E"];
let colors2 = colors.slice(1);
let colors3 = colors.slice(1, 4);

console.log(colors );  
console.log(colors2);  // B,C,D,E
console.log(colors3);  // B,C,D
Output:


In this example, the colors array starts out with five items.

Calling slice() and passing in 1 yields an array with four items, omitting "A" because the operation began copying from position 1, which contains "B".

The resulting colors2 array contains "B", "C", "D", and "E".

The colors3 array is constructed by calling slice() and passing in 1 and 4, meaning that the method will begin copying from the item in position 1 and stop copying at the item in position 3.

colors3 contains "B", "C", and "D".

If either the start or end position of slice() is a negative number, then the number is subtracted from the length of the array to determine the appropriate locations.

For example, calling slice(-2, -1) on an array with five items is the same as calling slice(3, 4).

If the end position is smaller than the start, then an empty array is returned.

splice()
Array splice() can be used in a variety of ways.

The main purpose of splice() is to insert items into the middle of an array, but there are three distinct ways of using this method.

Deletion
Any number of items can be deleted from the array by specifying just two arguments:

the position of the first item to delete and
the number of items to delete.
For example,splice(0, 2) deletes the first two items.

Insertion
Items can be inserted into a specific position by providing three or more arguments:

the starting position,
0 (the number of items to delete), and
the item to insert.
Optionally, you can specify a fourth parameter, fifth parameter, or any number of other parameters to insert.

For example, splice(2, 0, "A", "B") inserts the strings "A" and "B" into the array at position 2.

Replacement
Items can be inserted into a specific position while simultaneously deleting items, if you specify three arguments:

the starting position,
the number of items to delete, and
any number of items to insert.
The number of items to insert doesn't have to match the number of items to delete.

For example, splice(2, 1, "A", "B") deletes one item at position 2 and then inserts the strings "A" and "B" into the array at position 2.

The splice() method always returns an array that contains any items that were removed from the array or an empty array if no items were removed.

These three uses are illustrated in the following code:

Copy
let colors = ["A", "B", "C"];
let removed = colors.splice(0,1);  // remove the first item
console.log(colors);               // B,C
console.log(removed);              // A - one item array

removed = colors.splice(1, 0, "D", "orange");  // insert two items at position 1
console.log(colors);                                // B,D,orange,C
console.log(removed);                               // empty array

removed = colors.splice(1, 1, "A", "E");  // insert two values, remove one
console.log(colors);                             // B,A,E,orange,C
console.log(removed);                            // D - one item array
This example begins with the colors array containing three items.

When splice is called the first time, it simply removes the first item, leaving colors with the items "B" and "C".

The second time splice() is called, it inserts two items at position 1, resulting in colors containing "B", "D", "orange", and "C".

No items are removed at this point, so an empty array is returned.

The last time splice() is called, it removes one item, beginning in position 1, and inserts "A" and "E".

After all of this code has been executed, the colors array contains "B", "A", "E", "orange", and "C".
